Slide 1:
Hello, my name is John Hossler. I wanted to put together this talk in order
to spread awareness of a topic that I care about very much. In this talk, I
hope to give someone new information or a new perspective on the topic of
Net Neutrality.
Slide 2:
Some of you might be wondering what this topic <b>even is</b>. Well, the
key idea is that all data must be treated the same by both the government
and Internet Service Providers (ISPs). This idea has been broken down into
three smaller ideas that protect the general idea: No blocking, No
throttling, and No Paid Prioritization.
Down 1:
No blocking is what prohibits the blocking of legal data and the connection
of non-harmful devices. This means I can buy my own modem made by a third
party and use it to connect to my ISP. It also means I can use Peer to peer
services, such as bittorrent, to spread or get legal content. This protects
both the right to send and receive such traffic.
Down 2:
No throttling is definitely related to no blocking, but it's harder, as a
consumer, to understand what is happening. If I try to access a service
online and it's really slow and hard to use, my first instinct is to assume
fault with the service and then move on to another service. The dangerous
part about this is that it allows ISPs to artificially move the market
towards services that directly make them more money. This is extremely
anti-competitive behavior, and I think the only damage done is to the
consumer; however, I do see a legitimate purpose of throttling -- it can be
used to regulate network traffic and minimize bandwidth congestion, which
benefits the consumer.
Down 3:
No Paid Prioritization is where I found the most conflict with my personal
opinion. The idea behind it is that broadband providers may not favor some
traffic over other traffic in exchange for 'consideration' (for example,
money). This blocks fastlanes created by ISPs. The key to this point is
keeping it context with the central idea of Net Neutrality: all data must
be treated the same by .. ISPs. I am completely in favor of me, as a
consumer, being able to prioritize youtube traffic while I'm watching
youtube, and later prioritizing Netflix or some music streaming service.
The issue I have with paid prioritization is ISPs choosing what is
prioritized for me, and is why it is mentioned. All three of these ideas
are closely related to each other: Prioritization necessitates throttling of
some kind and throttling is softer but less transparent form of blocking.
This is why I do not think you can partially support Net Neutrality.
Slide 3:
Another key element of this discussion is understanding the role of Title II
in protecting Net Neutrality. To do this, I think going over a little bit of
history is useful. In 1996, the Telecommunications Act was made, which was
made with the intent of allowing anyone to enter into the communications
business. In 1998, Digital Millennium Copyright Act protected ISPs from
liability for the data that travels along their infrastructure. In 2002,
the FCC ruled ISPs as "information services". Then, in 2004, the FCC makes
the Open Internet Order to protect ideas of Net Neutrality on the internet.
Down 1:
Well, what went wrong? With the Open Internet Order, it seems like there is
protection for Net Neutrality ideas, but these rules been tested yet.
In 2010, after Comcast throttled the Peer-to-peer service BitTorrent,
the courts ruled that the FCC didn't have a sufficient statutory basis to
regulate the behavior of ISPs. One of the ideas of
Net Neutrality was infringed upon, and the FCC couldn't do anything.
Spoiler: this isn't the only time. In 2014, Verizion sues the FCC for the
Open Internet Order (redone in 2010 after the debacle with Comcast) and
wins. The court decided that the FCC had no authority to enforce the Open
Internet Order rules as long as ISPs were not identified as "common
carriers". Around this time, Verizon slows down traffic to Netflix for their
customers until Netflix agrees to a paid-peering plan with them. At this
point, it seems like Net Neutrality has lost. ISPs can do what they want and
control the online market and slow down services without any way for the
government to stop them.
Down 2:
This is why, in 2015, the FCC classified ISPs as common carriers under Title
II of the Communications Act of 1934. Now, the FCC can stop and penalize the
ISPs for violating Net Neutrality ideas laid out in 2004. This means no
blocking, no throttling, and no paid prioritization. Finally. Now, you might
be wondering why the government needs to get involved. Why do the consumers
need protection from a product they want and choose to purchase? With a free
market, competition should prevent abuse against the consumers, so how were
the ISPs able to do these things unless they were things the consumers
wanted? The issue with that is the fact that most people don't have a choice
when it comes to what service to get. With people that want 10 Mbps minimum,
36% don't have more than 2 choices, and 10% only have one option as of 2015.
These statistics only get worse as speed goes up. With apartment complexs
making deals with ISPs, even here in huntsville, I only have one 'choice',
and having internet isn't an option for me. The market doesn't protect me.
Down 3:
Where does Adtran Stand on the issue? I was unaware until a question from a
co-op at a lunch and learn, but from reading Adtran's comments on the FCC's
website, I found out that they do support _some_ ideas of Net Neutrality,
like No Blocking and No Throttling, but disagree with No Paid
Prioritization. Adtran also supports reclassifying ISPs as information
services so that the FCC cannot regulate the ISPs. I think I've provided
enough information above as to why I think that is a bad idea; however, I
think looking at how this affects our customers is a good place to start
for finding out more reasons why Adtran might take this stance.
Slide 4:
How does this affect our customers here at adtran? The obvious answer is
that our customers are ISPs, so that means they have this new legislation
that allows them to be regulated as common carriers. The negatives I've
heard from this is that regulation slows investment, innovation, and growth.
With the Amazons of the world entering into new markets and changing the
game, this scares our customers and makes them worried about their ability
to be stay competitive. From what I've seen though, this doesn't match
what these companies have been telling their investors. Revenue has
continued to increase, investment has grown, and while I don't know how
to measure how innovation was affected, I am doubtful it has been
negatively affected since the other two concerns can't actually be
verified.
Slide 5:
If this affects our customers, then the question of how it affects us is a
serious one. I was told that we lost out on a multi-million dollar deal
with a customer when the open internet order of 2015 went through. Our stock
plummeted from today's levels to $14.65/share. From what I understand, there
was a definite decrease in investment that hurt Adtran, but it's not
unexpected. It might be easy to zoom in on one effect of the 2015 order and
say it was bad, but since then we've seen pretty continuous growth, and I
think that makes sense. The fact we lost out on a deal with a customer just
tells me that the customer had to restructure, and they have. They are
growing, we are growing, and investment is growing. The negatives for our
customers, to me, only seem like net neutrality policies and the regulation
that comes with that. I remain unconvinced that the open internet order of
2015 had any of the long term negative economic effects that I would see as
reasons to abandon it. I am open to the idea that the rules, as it stand,
need modification, but that doesn't mean we throw out all the rules.
Down 1:
So far, I am dissatisfied for our reasoning for supporting reclassification.
In my opinion, all this does is create more uncertainty in a market that we
are doing well in. There has to be a good reason for this, and one idea I
ran across in my research is that, by supporting this reclassification,
Adtran is building better relationships with these big customers so that
the economic future of Adtran is more secure with these customers. This is
a valid point, in my opinion, but I am still concerned that this legislation
could ultimately hurt us, both as people who use the internet and as a network
infrastructure company. There are other ways to build relationships, and from
a Adtran-centric view, I don't know if these FCC comments were made in our
best interest. In some of my discussions, the idea of holding a town hall,
if there was enough interest, to discuss this topic and where Adtran stands
was proposed. I want to do a quick show of hands to see if there is enough
interest in this.
Slide 6:
Well, thank you for listening. I would encourage you to contact me if you
have questions or want to talk about this. I want to learn more, and if you
disagree with me, I would love to hear your perspective. Here's my email,
thank you.
